[Music]
billions of people board a plane each
year most passengers are completely
unaware of a few things every pilot
knows like if you should really panic
when the plane starts rocking the
landing isn't exactly as smooth as
butter or everyone in the cockpit fell
asleep let's check out the list one many
delays are caused by over-scheduling if
you fly often chances are you've had to
sit through at least one delayed fly one
common type is what airlines called ATC
delays but they have more to do with the
airline's themselves than the air
traffic controllers every airport has a
limited number of planes that can land
or take off each hour it's usually
around 60 landings or takeoffs per
runway in bad weather it can drop to 30
or less most airlines will schedule the
maximum number of flights per runway
regardless of the weather report this
leads to delays as planes are forced to
wait their turn and the schedule backs
up further and further two pilots will
lie about mechanical delays mechanical
problems are another common source of
holdups on the runway anything from a
minor issue with the air conditioner to
severe damage to the engine fan blades
can leave the plane stranded on the
tarmac until the problem gets fixed the
pilots don't always know how long
repairs are going to take but that kind
of answer probably won't satisfy
passengers when asked pilots will
usually give an amount of time that's
longer than they think it'll take but
not so long that people will get upset
when popular answer is 45 minutes since
it sounds better than an hour while
still giving the ground crew plenty of
time to solve the issue 3 engine failure
is pretty common have you ever been
driving down the highway when your
engine suddenly sputtered to a stop now
imagine that happening 30,000 feet in
the air it's a lot more common than most
people realize instead of saying engine
failure or stopped working pilots will
hide it with euphemisms like improper
functionality losing a single engine is
as big a deal as it sounds because
modern airliners can fly safely on just
one engine even if a plane loses all its
engines at once
it won't instantly fall out of the sky
in 1982 an airliner managed to land
safely despite losing all four of its
engines after flying through a cloud of
volcanic ash for flatulent isn't as
scary as it sounds either oops I'm sorry
that should have been turbulence my bad
feeling the cabin rock and shake is
arguably the least fun part of air
travel but that doesn't make it unsafe
turbulence is usually caused by weather
conditions that make it easy to protect
and while the shaking can get pretty
rough modern planes aren't going to fall
to pieces because of a little jostling
that and the pilots are well trained on
how to deal with it the only danger
comes from passengers ignoring safety
instructions even severe turbulence
isn't going to knock your plane out of
the sky but it can still throw you from
your seat so when the seatbelt light
comes on and the cabin starts shaking
you better buckle up five lightning
strikes are also mostly harmless soaring
through storm clouds in a metal tube
might sound like a recipe for disaster
but lightning is so harmless that most
passengers won't even notice their plane
was struck the material in a plane's
fuselage is designed to direct
electricity away the charges then
release back into the air by little
antennae known as static wicks worst
case the plane might come away with some
minor burns on the wings and tail it
still can be startling though if you're
sitting near where the lightning makes
contact you might be treated to a loud
boom and bright flash from just outside
your window six most hard landings are
done on purpose when your plane makes a
hard landing sending your heart right up
into your throat it's tempting to think
something went wrong that's rarely the
case because a bumpy landing is often
exactly what the pilot had in mind a
plane's wings produce more lift when
they're closer to the ground pushing it
back into
the air the best way to prevent this is
with a firm landing that puts the wheels
on the runway as soon as possible
harder landings also allow planes to
stop quickly without the pilots needing
to slam on the brakes or risk
overshooting the terminal or if the
runway is wet or icy a firm landing
gives the wheels more traction seven
pilots sleep on the job
imagine your cab driver falling asleep
at the wheel good thing planes aren't
taxis because pilots do it all the time
and it's not as dangerous as it sounds
part of the reason for having two pilots
is so there's always someone at the
controls it's perfectly okay for a pilot
to catch some Z's while the copilot is
at the controls of course it's not that
unusual for a pilot to wake up from
their nap and realize that their copilot
is nodded off as well this is less okay
when it comes to regulations but still
isn't as dangerous as it sounds thanks
to things like autopilot and other
safety features eight airplanes are germ
magnets cramming hundreds of people into
a metal tube is a great way to spread
germs even if no one in your row is
coughing or sneezing you might not be in
the clear surfaces like tray tables call
buttons and bathroom doors don't always
get wiped down between flights case in
point
bring some hand sanitizer and
antibacterial wipes with you when you
fly you might also want to think twice
before accepting pillows and blankets
while airlines usually try to keep them
clean there isn't always time to wash
them between flights consider bringing
your own pillow and blanket unless you
like resting your head and someone
else's dandruff you lightning storms
bumpy landings germs we've covered
pretty much everything I fear about
flying but what about you let me know
down in the comments if you're afraid of
turbulence you're gonna like this next
point 9 morning flights are the
smoothest any pilot will tell you that
early morning flights are your best bet
if you want to avoid heavy turbulence
the Sun heats
air during the day which contributes to
stronger winds heat reflecting off the
ground is also a major factor in clear
weather turbulence taking off in the
morning before the Sun has time to
finish heating things up is a great way
to avoid both these problems clear
weather also means fewer chances for
flights to get backed up so delays are
less likely ten pilots get their own
special meals the pilot doesn't eat the
same things at their passengers but this
is more of a safety precaution than a
perk of the job their meals are usually
made by the same people and of the same
quality as what everyone else gets but
are prepared separately they also can't
eat the same things as each other the
idea is that if one of them gets sick
from what they ate the other pilot will
still be healthy enough to fly the plane
many airlines also let pilots bring
their own food from home given the usual
quality of airplane food I wouldn't be
surprised if that's a popular choice 11
pilots and co-pilots are equals it's
tempting to think of planes as being run
like ships with one person in charge and
everyone else following their lead there
are even nautical inspired terms like
captain and first officer instead of
pilot and co-pilot the reality is that
while the captain is usually the more
experienced to the two it's more of a
partnership than a boss subordinate
relationship the pilot and co-pilot are
both equally responsible for the safety
of the flight and they're both equally
equipped to handle any situation that
might crop up it's not unusual for the
copilot to be in full control of the
plane without the captain's direct
supervision like in the case of the
ladders in the bathroom because of some
undercooked chicken
oh my 12 becoming a pilot is expensive
perspective commercial pilots first need
to earn a bachelor's degree then choose
a flight school you can end up spending
hundreds of thousands of dollars on
training and certification once that's
done you finally have your pilot's
license now you need 1500 hours of
flight experience to qualify for an
airline
Transport Pilot certificate and what's
the fastest way to rack up that flight
time by renting a plane and flying it
around which isn't cheap let me tell you
and those are the plain facts hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]